congratulations.
You have made it through the section on building and a P I in raw no Js with no libraries
and no frameworks.
Bravo.
All the rest of the sections of this course should be a lot easier for you if this was
challenging.
Don't worry,
it just gets easier from here.
But if you made it through this section,
you should be very proud of yourself.
So now,
before we move on,
we're going to go over all the node libraries and modules that we used in this lecture
Siris in this section so that you can start to familiarize yourself with the no
documentation a little bit and also just recap what we did this,
if you haven't seen it before,
is the no Js documentation that's available on their website.
By the time you're viewing this,
this might change a little bit.
Just make sure that you are viewing node version eight point something.
Right now,
the LTs release of node is a 0.9 point four,
but that could bump up a minor or patch version number at any time.
In no particular order.
One of the modules that we used in this lecture series was command line options.
Command line options is what we were just speaking about in the last lecture.
The fact that we were able to start note with environmental variables such as node
underscore debug allowed us to get our logging under control so that we weren't logging
tons of things to the console.
There's also a whole bunch of other command line options that you can start node with and
will score a few of these as time goes on.
Another module that we use was console for the same reason we did.
Consul dot log a lot,
and you learned that you can pass different kinds of arguments to console dot log in order
to change the color.
There's also a whole bunch of other things that you can do with conso dot log or use other
console functions such as dot count or dot error dot group.
Another model that we use was crypto.
If you remember when we were creating the user service,
when we would post to users,
we would have to hash their password.
And for that we use the crypto module.
It's built in,
create H Mac and shot 2 56 functions allowed us to hash those passwords and also hash them
again in the token service when we needed to compare a cent password to one that we had
stored.
Another module that we used in this section was file system,
which we refer to as F S.
F s allowed us to read from the file system right to the file system,
open files,
truncate files on link files and ah,
whole bunch of other things synchronously and a synchronously F s is a very useful module.
And if you're building applications in node,
this will probably be one that you're using.
Perhaps more than any other Global's Global's is another module that we did not ever have
to require because,
as his name implies,
Global's is just a collection of things that become globally available to you.
If you remember when we were creating based directories,
we used underscore underscore directory name a lot in order to resolve our path or create a
long path that could be resolved later.
We also did module dot exports within our file in order to export the contents of a file
into another one that was requiring it.
Speaking of require require is another global and require allows us to import the contents
of one file into another.
So all these global's have been important to us as we've been using them.
And as you use node,
you'll use the other global's available as well.
Two modules that we used at the beginning When we're just setting up or http and https
servers were,
as the name implies,
the HDP module and the H two B s module.
These ones allowed us to create new servers.
Listen on ports https allowed us to listen on,
poured securely with self sign SSL certificates.
But remember,
the http and https also allowed us to create and craft HTP requests that could be sent to
http or https endpoints in order for us to perform our checks and actually check whether
these girls configured by the users or up or down.
So,
http and https are very useful both for listening for HDP connections and making outbound
htp requests as well.
There is a module which is actually just called modules.
Now,
this is kind of a meta module that you never really use yourself.
It's really just documenting the fact that modules the ability to require import different
functions that are scoped to whatever variable you assign them.
That whole thing exists and is part of the node experience that's all encapsulated in this
module.
So,
in a way,
just by using node and doing requiring,
you have used this module.
If you remember,
we were setting up the data library as well as the logging library.
We used path a lot.
We were using PATH in order to resolve our path and normalize it and make it clean enough
to be able to read in a certificate or write to a file system in a coherent way.
Another module was process.
If you remember,
process not off was one of the global's that we access in order to determine what command
line options have been sent to us when this got started up.
And so there are other process Global's that you can use dot off is just one example.
But the way that we used on off you can use the others as well.
Query strings,
query strings is a module that we used early on,
and then more recently,
when we needed to take a euro that was full of path and query string parameters and
exploded into a more coherent object that separated out the host name from the path and the
query string we use that were originally taking in HTP requests with the server.
And then,
more recently,
when we're making http requests out from us to whatever you are out that we wanted to check
string decoder.
It's something that we used early on in order to get the A load parsed that the users had
been sending in and parse it as utf eight string decoder isn't really used that often,
but when you do use it,
such as for parsing and incoming payload into a buffer,
it's extremely useful.
Another module that we've been using,
especially in the workers,
is timers.
Timers is another module that we don't need to require explicitly.
It just exposes some global's to us,
similar to the kind of global sick it exposed in the browser as it pertains to timing that
is set interval set time out and a few others we've been using set interval when it comes
to making sure our workers fire every minute or every hour as it were.
Another module that we used early on is your l.
When it came to parsing out the host name the path name etcetera from the Earl.
We used the U.
R L module and brought in some query straight module usage as well utilities.
More recently,
we just used the util dot debug log functions in order to set up that note,
underscore debug regime,
where we can use that startup command line option in order to say which things should be
Console log in which things should not.
The utility class has a bunch of other really useful functions in there.
It also has a bunch of deprecating things that you should probably stay away from in my
sorority using them another library that we didn't need to require but we did use was
buffers,
If you remember,
when we were compressing and decompressing a file,
for example,
we were moving from a string into a buffer and then back to a string.
And similarly,
when we were decoding that same file,
we went from a base 64 string up into a new buffer and then back to a plain text Cherie
Buffers air really useful.
It's really how Node thinks of a represents streaming data payload data,
such as when we did HDP incoming payloads and you'll be using them a lot.
Z Live Module is something that we only used during the law compression and decompression
lecture zeal.
It provides a few useful functions and different options for zipping,
inflating G,
zipping,
deflating,
etcetera.
So if you need to compress data,
look no further than the lab module.
Lastly,
as I mentioned,
we have been using the streaming module,
especially as it pertains to the incoming payload that we are parsing when users make a
request or a post with a Jason payload.
We stream it in a little bit at a time,
as opposed to trying to read it all at one time.
So that is all of the node modules that we used in this section.
It was a whole bunch of them,
and in the next sections we will slowly use all of the's remaining modules or at least
mentioned why you wouldn't want to use them or why you would want to use them well,
eventually,
at least address in passing all of the modules listed here and after eat section in our
lecture series,
we will return to this documentation and talk about which modules we just went over.
This is so that you after you finish this course,
can look at this no Js documentation and quickly identify what buffer is.
What console is what file system is etcetera.
So without further do,
we can move on to the next poll section in this course,
which is about building a Web app front end for this rest for MP I that we do is built on
the back end.
So we've been spending a whole bunch of time on the back end and now we get to do some
front and stuff.
Although since it's no Js,
of course you're still going to be a lot of what feels like back and work involved.